README.md, before:

# Intro to Git Rebase

Before doing a rebase, an essential first step is to checkout the main (master, dev, etc) branch and pull down the latest changes:

```
git checkout main
git pull main
```
\
Then switch back to the feature branch to do the rebase:

```
git checkout feature
git rebase main
```
\
If there are conflicts that need to be resolved, git will show which files have merge conflicts. Resolve the conflicts and stage the files using `git add`. Then continue the rebase with `git rebase --continue`.

```
git add .
git rebase --continue
```
\
As git applies each commit to the tip of the main branch, there is a chance for a conflict so you may need to repeat the previous step multiple times.


Once the rebase is complete, you can confirm your commits have been applied to the latest commit on main by using `git log`.

```
git log --oneline
```

## What if things go wrong?

During a rebase, you can always abort the rebase operation and revert to the last commit before attempting the rebase.

```
git rebase --abort
```

#### The rebase completed but something isn't right

```
git reflog
```

You will see a history of local changes to the repository. Look for the last good commit before the rebase and copy the commit id (SHA). You can then use `git reset`:

```
git reset --hard <last good SHA>
```

## Interactive Rebase


## References

* [Git Rebase](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase)
* [Merging vs Rebasing](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
* [Demystifying Git Rebase](https://www.thinktecture.com/en/tools/demystifying-git-rebase)
* [Always Squash and Rebase Your Git Commits](https://blog.carbonfive.com/always-squash-and-rebase-your-git-commits)

Commit message:

Add details about interactive rebase

README.md, after:

# Intro to Git Rebase

Before doing a rebase, an essential first step is to checkout the main (master, dev, etc) branch and pull down the latest changes:

```
git checkout main
git pull main
```
\
Then switch back to the feature branch to do the rebase:

```
git checkout feature
git rebase main
```
\
If there are conflicts that need to be resolved, git will show which files have merge conflicts. Resolve the conflicts and stage the files using `git add`. Then continue the rebase with `git rebase --continue`.

```
git add .
git rebase --continue
```

*NOTE:* If the commit that creates a conflict is no longer needed, it can be dropped by using the `--skip` option instead:

```
git rebase --skip
```

\
As git applies each commit to the tip of the main branch, there is a chance for a conflict so you may need to repeat the previous step multiple times.


Once the rebase is complete, you can confirm your commits have been applied to the latest commit on main by using `git log`.

```
git log --oneline
```

## What if things go wrong?

During a rebase, you can always abort the rebase operation and revert to the last commit before attempting the rebase.

```
git rebase --abort
```

#### The rebase completed but something isn't right

```
git reflog
```

You will see a history of local changes to the repository. Look for the last good commit before the rebase and copy the commit id (SHA). You can then use `git reset`:

```
git reset --hard <last good SHA>
```

## Interactive Rebase

Git rebase can also be used in interactive mode to modify commits in a range. Commits can be dropped or squashed and commit messages can be modified.

```
git rebase -i HEAD~<number of commits>
```

## References

* [Git Rebase](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-rebase)
* [Merging vs Rebasing](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/merging-vs-rebasing)
* [Demystifying Git Rebase](https://www.thinktecture.com/en/tools/demystifying-git-rebase)
* [Always Squash and Rebase Your Git Commits](https://blog.carbonfive.com/always-squash-and-rebase-your-git-commits)
